.TH GRACE 1 "Jan 28, 2007"
.LO 1
.SH NAME
grace \- command line interface
.br
xmgrace \- full-featured GUI mode
.br
gracebat \- batch mode \- print and exit

.SH DESCRIPTION
Grace is a WYSIWYG tool to make two-dimensional plots of scientific
data.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grace
.RI "[ " option " | " filename " ]..."
.br
.B xmgrace
.RI "[ " option " | " filename " ]..."
.br
.B gracebat
.RI "[ " option " | " filename " ]..."

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-autoscale " "x|y|xy|none"
Set autoscale type
.TP
.B "\-barebones "
Turn off all toolbars
.TP
.BI "\-batch "    "file"
Execute batch
.I file
on start up (i.e., after all other options have been processed and the UI
initialized)
.TP
.BI "\-block "    "file"               
Assume the data
.I file
is block data
.TP
.BI "\-bxy "       "x:y:etc."
Form a set from the current block data set using the current set type
from columns given in the argument
.TP
.BI "\-datehint "    "iso|european|us|days|seconds|nohint"              
Set the hint for dates analysis
.TP
.BI "\-dpipe "    "descriptor"               
Read data from descriptor on startup
.TP
.BI "\-fixed "    "width height"           
Set canvas size fixed to width*height
.TP
.B "\-free"                                 
Use free page layout
.TP
.BI "\-graph "     "number"             
Set the current graph number
.TP
.BI "\-graphtype " "xy|chart|fixed|polar|pie"               
Set the type of the current graph
.TP
.B "\-hardcopy"
No interactive session, just print and quit
.TP
.BI "\-hdevice "   "device_name"     
Set default hardcopy device. See
.B "xmgrace \-version"
for a list of supported devices.
.TP
.B "\-install"
Install private colormap
.TP
.B "\-legend"    "load"
Turn the graph legend on
.TP
.BI "\-log "       "x|y|xy" 
Set the axis scaling of the current graph to logarithmic
.TP
.BI "\-maxpath "   "length" 
Set the maximal drawing path length
.TP
.B "\-mono"                                 
Run grace in monochrome mode (affects the display only)
.TP
.BI "\-netcdf "  "file"
Assume data file is in netCDF format. This option is present
only if the netCDF support was compiled in
.TP
.BI "\-netcdfxy " "X_var Y_var"
If \-netcdf was used previously, read from the netCDF file
X_var and Y_var variables and create a set.
If X_var is "null" then load the index of Y to X.
This option is present only if the netCDF support was compiled in
.TP
.B "\-noask"
Assume the answer is yes to all requests, if the operation would overwrite
a file, grace will do so without prompting
.TP
.B "\-noinstall"                            
Don't use private colormap
.TP
.B "\-noprint"                              
In batch mode, do not print
.TP
.B "\-nosafe"                              
Disable safe mode
.TP
.B "\-nosigcatch"                           
Don't catch signals
.TP
.BI "\-npipe "     "file"                     
Read data from named pipe on startup
.TP
.BI "\-nxy "       "file"
Assume data file is in X Y1 Y2 Y3 ...  format
.TP
.BI "\-param "     "file"
Load parameters from 
.I file
to the current graph
.TP
.BI "\-pexec "    "string"         
Interpret string as a parameter setting
.TP
.B "\-pipe"
Read data from stdin on startup
.TP
.BI "\-printfile " "file" 
Save print output to 
.I file 
.TP
.B "\-remove"                               
Remove data file(s) after read
.TP
.BI "\-results "  "file"             
Write results of some data manipulations to 
.I file
.TP
.B "\-rvideo"
Exchange the color indices for black and white
.TP
.B "\-safe"                              
Run in the safe mode (default)
.TP
.BI "\-saveall "  "file"
Save all to 
.I file
.TP
.BI "\-seed "     "value"               
Integer seed for random number generator
.TP
.BI "\-settype "   "xy|xydx|..."              
Set the type of the next data file
.TP
.BI "\-source "    "disk|pipe"                
Source type of next data file
.TP
.BI "\-timer "    "delay"                    
Set allowed time slice for real time inputs to
.I delay
ms
.TP
.B "\-timestamp"                            
Add timestamp to plot
.TP
.B "\-version"                             
Show the program version, registered devices and build time configuration information.
.TP
.BI "\-viewport " "xmin ymin xmax ymax"      
Set the viewport for the current graph
.TP
.BI "\-wd "       "path"                
Set the working directory
.TP
.BI "\-world "    "xmin ymin xmax ymax"
Set the world coordinates for the current graph
.TP
.B "\-usage|\-help"
This message

.SH RESOURCES
.TP
When run in the GUI mode, the interface is a subject to X resource settings.
Please refer to the User's Guide for a list of important ones.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GRACE_HOME
Specifies the directory where the Grace docs and libs are stored. Default is
.BR /usr/local/grace
.TP
.B GRACE_HELPVIEWER
The shell command to run an HTML viewer for on-line browsing of the help
documents. Must include at least one instance of "%s" which will be replaced
with the actual URL by Grace. Default is 
.B mozilla %s
.TP
.B GRACE_EDITOR
Specifies the editor which is used to edit sets. Default is 
.B xterm \-e vi
.TP
.B GRACE_PRINT_CMD
The print command.
.TP
.B GRACE_FFTW_RAM_WISDOM
and
.B GRACE_FFTW_WISDOM_FILE
A flag (0 or 1) and a file name which determine whether a FFT should use 
`wisdom' when using the FFTW libraries.

.SH FILES
In many cases, when Grace needs to access a file given with a
relative 
.ft I
pathname\c
.ft R
, it searches for the file along the following path:
.ft I
 ./pathname:./.grace/pathname:~/.grace/pathname:$GRACE_HOME/pathname
.ft R

The following files are of a special importance:

.B gracerc
- init file loaded upon start up.

.B templates/Default.agr
- the default template, loaded whenever a new project is started.

.B fonts/FontDataBase
- the file responsible for font configuration.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
grconvert(1), X(1) [or Xorg(1)], Grace User's Guide

.SH HOME PAGE
http://plasma-gate.weizmann.ac.il/Grace/

.SH BUGS
The best way to submit a bug report is using the "Help/Comments" menu entry.
Alternatively, see the home page.

.SH AUTHORS
.B Grace
is derived from 
.B ACE/gr
(a.k.a
.B Xmgr
) written by Paul J Turner. From version number 4.00, the development was taken
over by a team of volunteers under the coordination of Evgeny Stambulchik.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1991-1995 Paul J Turner, Portland, OR
.br
Copyright (c) 1996-2007 Grace Development Team

.SH LICENSE
The program is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
